# PROMISES

Promises is a way of doing asynchronous tasks (Tasks that can be executed on the thread while other process/tasks is running).

We have two major ways we can make use of promises in JS, they are
1. Fetch()
2. Axios

# FETCH()

To illustrate fetch(), let's look at a practical example

Imagine you were strolling through a street and you sighted a very beautiful laptop in a computer store. You asked your dad that you need that laptop as a present. Your dad promises to get the laptop for you. A promise is like a special agreement where your dad says, "I will get you the laptop, but it may take some time to get it." When your dad finally gets the laptop, he will fulfill his promise and give it to you. If he can't get the laptop, he will break his promise and let you know. That's like promises in JavaScript.

Here's how it works:
1. You ask your dad (fetch() acts as your dad) to get a laptop (data) from a computer store (URL)
2. Your dad (`fetch()`) goes to the computer store (URL) you mentioned and tries to get the laptop (data) for you.
3. If everything goes well and the laptop is bought, your dad (`fetch()`) brings back the laptop (data) to you.
4. However if along the way or line, your dad fails to get the laptop, the promises is not fulfiled and informs you about it (`.catch()` is where failure to fulfil promises is logged)

Let's code this example

```javascript
//fetch goes to the url and gets the laptop
fetch('https://api.computer-store.com/hp-pavilion')
    //fetch returns a response (laptop) which is converted into JSON
    .then(function(response) {
        return response.json(); //Convert the response into JSON
    })
    //our laptop is then displayed in our console.log
    .then(function(data) {
        console.log(data);  // Output: Display your laptop
    })
    //if fetch encounters any error while going to get the laptop, such error is logged in the .catch()
    .catch(function(error) {
        console.log(error);  // Output: Error message if something goes wrong
    });
```

In this example, 
- You tell `fetch()` to go to the URL 'https://api.computer-store.com/hp-pavilion' to get an hp pavilion laptop for you. 
- It goes there and brings back a response (the laptop). You use `response.json()` to convert the response into something usable, in this case JSON (this is like you configuring your laptop and installing os before it can be used)
- In the second `.then()` function, you can do something with the laptop, like display it in the `console.log`
- If there's any problem along the way while going to get the laptop, the `.catch()` function helps you handle the error.


# AXIOS

Axios is a promise based HTTP client. Just like `fetch()`, We can use Axios to make calls to a server

To illustrate Axios, let's look at a practical example

Imagine you have a special helper named "axios" who can go to a magical place on the internet and bring back something for you. In this code below, you ask your helper to go to a specific place and bring back information about bonsai trees. You tell your helper the address of that special place is: 'https://tbhpwebdevapi.azurewebsites.net/api/Bonsai'.

```javascript
axios.get('https://tbhpwebdevapi.azurewebsites.net/api/Bonsai')
    .then(function(response) {
        console.log(response.data);  // Output: displays information about bonsai trees
    })
    .catch(function(error) {
        console.log(error);  // Output: Error message if something goes wrong
    });
```

In this example,
- Your helper (axios) goes to that magical place and gets information about bonsai trees
- Once your helper goes to that special place, it comes back with the information (response.data) and displays it in the `console.log` for you to see the output
- If there is any problem or difficulty while getting the information, your helper knows what to do. They catch the problem and tell you what happened using another special word "catch". They use the word "error" to describe the problem and show it to you using "console.log()".

Note: While using axios, our response don't have to be converted before we can make use of it. It is automatically converted for us behind the scene